[Coverage Home](http://wiki.eclipse.org/OSEE/Coverage/Users_Guide)

The following lists out the major functionality of tracking a coverage
effort using the coverage tool.

# Dispositioning Coverage Results using OSEE Coverage

## Create a new Coverage Package

In [Coverage
Navigator](/docs/OSEE/Coverage/Users_Guide/Views.md#Coverage_Navigator "wikilink"),
select "Create New Coverage Package" and enter in a name. You will be
prompted for a Branch to store.

## Configure Coverage Methods

Each Coverage Package can configure it's own Coverage Methods that will
be used to disposition coverage items. Their are 4 default Coverage
Methods. In Coverage Navigator, select "Configure Coverage Methods",
select the Branch and choose the Coverage Package to configure. An XML
representation will show of the current coverage methods. New methods
can be created by adding a new {option} item. Deleting one can be
performed the same way. NOTE: Existing Coverage Items that have a
deleted Coverage Method will remain unchanged until the user changes
them.

## Importing Coverage Results

Selecting the Import tab will provide the user with the Import Blams
available for import. These are generated by extending the Coverage
application with a new Blam that allows for the coverage import of
results from an external coverage tool such as VectorCast. Upon select,
the input parameters will be requested and the Blam can be run by
selecting "Run BLAM in Job". Upon completion, this will provide the user
with 3 new Tabs that will help in the import/merging of new coverage
results. ![image:testworkflow.png](/docs/images/testworkflow.png "image:testworkflow.png") ![Image:ContextUnitTestCategories
2.png](ContextUnitTestCategories_2.png
"Image:ContextUnitTestCategories 2.png")

### Review the Import Overview Tab

The Import Overview tab will show the user the results that were
imported and also provide any errors that were generated during the
import process. In most cases, these errors should be resolved, but it
is up to how the specific import Blam imported it's data as to how these
should be resolved.

Verify that the imported metrics are as expected.

### Access detailed information through the Import Items Tab

The Import Items tab will allow the user to navigate the records that
are to be imported and make sure that all items that are expected were
imported properly.

### Merge Import Items into Coverage Package

Switching to the Import Merge tab will show the Merge Items that are to
be imported. This tab is split into the "Coverage Package Table (CPT)"
and the "Import Package Table (IPT)".

The CPT lists the current items that have already been imported and
saved into the existing Coverage Package. All search capabilities at the
top of the screen work with this table to allow navigation of these
items.

The IPT lists the items that are available for saving to the Coverage
Package. These items show up automatically and are not tied to the
searching items at the top of the tab.

#### Verifying Merge Items

The user can verify that all items listed in the IPT are valid to
import. Selecting the checkbox next to the item and selecting the yellow
left arrow will import and save these items in the Coverage Package.
These will now be available to anyone when they open the Coverage
Package Editor.

Each Merge Item has a list of children and a description of the
operation to perform if the checkbox is selected. Comparing these
operations with the items that are already in the Coverage Package will
allow the user to verify that the data is ok to import.

There are a couple of ways the user can compare the import items to the
coverage package items.

##### Link with Import Item

  - Select "Search" with no parameters in the search fields. This will
    show the top level Coverage Folders in the CPT.
  - Select the "Link with Import Item" Action over the CPT. This will
    activate the linking capability
  - Select any merge item in the IPT. After selection, the CPT will
    expand down to the item that matches the item selected in the IPT.
    This allows the user to quickly find and compare the coverage item
    and the item to merge. If no item matches, nothing will be selected
    in the CPT.

##### Show Merge Details

Select any Merge Item in the IPT and select the "Show Merge Details"
Action at the top of the IPT. This will open a separate editor with a
detailed description of the comparison of the coverage package items and
the coverage import items.

This should help the user determine exactly how the Coverage application
determined the operation to perform and ensure that it is the correct
one.

## Dispositioning Coverage Results

  - Open Coverage Perspective
  - Select "Open Coverage Package"
  - Select Branch (if one has not already been chosen)
  - Select Coverage Package
  - Coverage Editor will open with coverage information
  - Switch to Coverage Items Tab
  - Select "Search" button (can enter search criteria or leave blank for
    all to show)
  - Navigate down to item interested in dispositioning
  - Sorting by Method Number and Executable Line Number
      - XViewer contains a multiple column sorting that allows for this.
        Select the Method Number column header, this will forward sort
        by that column (note sorting status in bottom of table). Hold
        down CTRL key and select the Executable Line Number column
        header. This will sort this column second. Note the sorting
        status at the bottom of the table. Selecting another header will
        remove this sort. Holding down CTRL key and selecting columns
        will reverse the sorting of that column. Right-click "clear all
        sorting" will remove all sorts.
  - Modify Coverage Item Method or Ratonale
      - Alt-left Click in cell or select multiple items and right-click
        Edit; select desired values and Ok
  - Modify Coverage Unit Notes
      - Alt-left-click in the notes field or select multiple items and
        right-click Edit Coverage Notes
  - Modify Coverage Assignees
      - Make sure assignee column is visible. If not, select table
        customization Action in top right corner of editor and add
        Assignee to visible columns
      - Alt-left-click in assignee cell or select multiple items and
        right-click Edit Assignees

# Open Coverage Package

In Coverage Navigator, select "Open Coverage Package" and select the
Branch and select the Coverage Package. The Coverage Editor will open.

# Delete Coverage Package

In Coverage Navigator, select "Delete Coverage Package" and select the
Branch and select the Coverage Package to delete.

# Tracking changes to Work Product based on Disposition results

## Create/Relate ATS Actions to the Coverage Package

  - Using OSEE [ATS](http://wiki.eclipse.org/OSEE/ATS/Users_Guide)
    (Action Tracking System), create any number of Actions desired. Each
    Action's workflow will contain tasks needed to change that work
    product, so it is up to the user to determine how best they want to
    manange/track/metric the changes to the work products.
  - Open desired **Coverage Package** and switch to the **Work Product
    Tracking** tab.
  - Expand the Action's Relations section and drag from the drag box to
    the **Work Product Tracking** tab. This will relate this workflow to
    the coverage package.
  - Repeat this for any other Actions/Workflows created.

## Create/Update work tasks for **Coverage Items**

  - In **Coverage Items** tab, expand down the the **Coverage Item** or
    **Coverage Unit** that you want to create tasks for.
  - Ensure that the "Work Product Task" column is visible. This can be
    done through the table customization options provided on this tab.
  - Select the items to related to work tasks
  - Right-click -\> Create/Update Work Product Task
  - Select Action that corresponds to the product that needs to change.
    For example, there may be an action for Requirements fix, one for
    code fix, one for test fix, one for hardware/lab fix. This will
    relate the item to the type of change that is needed and create a
    task in ATS.
  - Either select an existing task or enter a new task name that
    describes the type of change for this item.
  - This task name will now show in the "Work Product Task" column

## Opening/Statusing/Deleting work tasks for **Coverage Items**

  - Select any number of **Coverage Items**, right-click and select
    "Open Work Product Task". Once opened the tasks can be assigned,
    statused, deleted by using normal OSEE ATS capabilities.

## Removing work tasks for **Coverage Items**

  - Un-relating **Coverage Items** to Work product tasks
      - Select related **Coverage Items** -\> Right-click -\> Remove
        Work Product Tasks

<!-- end list -->

  - Deleting Work Product Tasks
      - Ensure all related **Coverage Items** have been unrelated
      - Select related **Coverage Items** -\> Right-click -\> Open Work
        Product Tasks
      - Select tasks -\> Right-click Delete

## Reviewing metrics for Work Product Tasks

  - Select **Work Product Actions** tab
  - Select Open Work Product Actions icon in top right
  - Select Metrics tab or use other ATS metrics capabilities as desired