## What is OSEE?

![osee.jpg](/docs/images/osee.jpg "osee.jpg")

The [Open System Engineering Environment
(OSEE)](http://www.eclipse.org/osee) project provides a tightly
integrated environment supporting lean principles across a product's
full life-cycle in the context of an overall systems engineering
approach. The system captures project data into a common user-defined
data model providing bidirectional traceability, project health
reporting, status, and metrics which seamlessly combine to form a
coherent, accurate view of a project in real-time. By building on top of
this data model, OSEE has been architected to provide an all-in-one
solution to configuration management, requirements management, testing,
validation, and project management. All of these work together to help
an organization achieve lean objectives by reducing management
activities, eliminating data duplication, reducing cycle-time through
streamlined processes, and improving overall product quality through
work flow standardization and early defect detection.

[**The What and Why of OSEE**](/docs/The_What_and_Why_of_OSEE.md "wikilink")

[**OSEE Flyer**](https://wiki.eclipse.org/images/0/03/OSEE_Flyer.pdf)

[**How Do I Author CM Changes in GitLab Markdown (Preferred
Option)**](/docs/OSEE/Training.md#ATS_-_How_do_I_Author_Configuration_Managed_Changes_in_GitLab_Markdown_.28Preferred_Option.29 "wikilink")

[**How Do I Author CM Changes in MS
Word**](/docs/OSEE/Training.md#ATS_-_How_do_I_Author_Configuration_Managed_Changes_in_Word "wikilink")

[**Disciplined Engineering (PLE) with
OSEE**](https://git.eclipse.org/c/osee/org.eclipse.osee.git/plain/plugins/org.eclipse.osee.support.dev/Disciplined_Engineering_with_OSEE.pptx?h=dev)

[**Testing Real-time Avionics Software with OSEE Test Environment
(OTE)**](https://wiki.eclipse.org/images/a/a9/OTE_Brief.pdf)

[**The Cure For Your Disconnected Toolset
Headache**](https://git.eclipse.org/c/osee/org.eclipse.osee.git/plain/plugins/org.eclipse.osee.support.dev/The_Cure_for_Your_Disconnected_Toolset_Headache_live.pptx?h=dev)

## Documentation

### Detailed Overview

  - [**Detailed Overview**](/docs/OSEE/Detailed_Overview.md "wikilink")
  - [**Acronyms**](/docs/OSEE/Acronyms.md "wikilink")

### By OSEE element

### As presented in the GUIÂ 

  - [**Documentation by view**](/docs/OSEE/Documentation_by_view.md "wikilink")
  - [**How to ...**](/docs/OSEE/HowTo.md "wikilink")
  - [**Team leaders How to ...**](/docs/OSEE/HowToForTeamLeaders.md "wikilink")
  - [**Administrators How to
    ...**](/docs/OSEE/HowToForAdministrators.md "wikilink")

Note: This section of the Wiki is being developed as part of an
organisation's own documentation and being provided to the OSEE
community under the open-source goals of the project. It is not the
responsibility of the code developers, so please don't blame them for
any errors\!

## Using OSEE / Training

  - [**Getting Started**](/docs/OSEE/Users_Guide/Getting_Started.md "wikilink") -
    the first steps to setup OSEE
  - [**New Getting
    Started**](/docs/OSEE/Users_Guide/Getting_Started_New.md "wikilink") - new
    getting started page (Jaden is working)
  - [**User Training / Tips and Tricks**](/docs/OSEE/Training.md "wikilink") -
    Training on how to use OSEE for a given task
      - [**How Do I Author CM
        Changes**](/docs/OSEE/Training.md#ATS_-_How_do_I_Author_Configuration_Managed_Changes "wikilink")
        (video series)
          - [**How Do I Author CM Changes in GitLab Markdown (Preferred
            Option)**](/docs/OSEE/Training.md#ATS_-_How_do_I_Author_Configuration_Managed_Changes_in_GitLab_Markdown_.28Preferred_Option.29 "wikilink")
          - [**How Do I Author CM Changes in MS
            Word**](/docs/OSEE/Training.md#ATS_-_How_do_I_Author_Configuration_Managed_Changes_in_Word "wikilink")
      - [**All OSEE Training
        Videos**](/docs/OSEE/Training.md#All_OSEE_Training_Videos "wikilink")
  - [**EclipseCon Presentations**](/docs/OSEE/EclipseCon.md "wikilink")
  - [**Download**](http://www.eclipse.org/osee/downloads.php) - get the
    latest builds
  - [**OSEE
    Bugzilla**](https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/buglist.cgi?query_format=advanced&short_desc_type=allwordssubstr&short_desc=&classification=Technology&product=OSEE&long_desc_type=allwordssubstr&long_desc=&bug_file_loc_type=allwordssubstr&bug_file_loc=&status_whiteboard_type=allwordssubstr&status_whiteboard=&keywords_type=allwords&keywords=&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=REOPENED)
    - review and create Bugzilla entries
  - [**File a
    bug**](https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/enter_bug.cgi?product=OSEE&rep_platform=All&op_sys=All)
    - file bugs and feature requests

## Configuring and Extending OSEE

  - [**BLAM**](/docs/OSEE/BLAM.md "wikilink") - How to extend OSEE's capabilities
    without changing OSEE itself

## Developing OSEE

  - [**Architecture**](/docs/OSEE/Architecture.md "wikilink") - Learn the OSEE
    Architecture
  - [**Requirements and Design**](/docs/OSEE/ReqAndDesign.md "wikilink") - The
    Requirements and Design of OSEE itself
  - [**Developer Mailing
    List**](https://dev.eclipse.org/mailman/listinfo/osee-dev) -
    Subscribe to the developer list
  - [**Software Development
    Process**](/docs/OSEE/Software_Development_Process.md "wikilink") - Software
    Development Process
  - [**Developer Setup**](/docs/OSEE/Developer_Setup.md "wikilink") - Steps to
    setup an OSEE development environment
  - [**Developer's Guide**](/docs/OSEE/Developers_Guide.md "wikilink") - Notes
    and information for OSEE Development
  - Being Retired - [**Workspace
    Setup**](/docs/OSEE/Workspace_Setup.md "wikilink") - How to setup your
    workspace
  - Being Retired - [**Developer Guidelines and
    Resources**](/docs/OSEE/Developer_Guidelines.md "wikilink") - Developer
    guidelines and additional setup
  - [**Newsgroup**](http://www.eclipse.org/forums/index.php?t=thread&frm_id=68&S=03be8852279043e2fbe465ca71cbb7ac)
    - Newsgroup portal
  - [**Project
    Plan**](http://www.eclipse.org/projects/project-plan.php?projectid=technology.osee)
    - What's coming up?
  - [**Developer Meetings**](/docs/OSEE/Meetings.md "wikilink")

## Wiki Help

  - [**How to edit a Wiki**](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/How_to_edit)
  - [**WikiText
    Cheatsheet**](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Cheatsheet)
  - [**WikiText Character
    Formatting**](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Formatting#Character_formatting)
  - [OSEE/OseeHomePage_Version_2_0](/docs/OSEE/OseeHomePage_Version_2_0.md "wikilink")